

So we're going to give you some useful guidelines and we're also going to give you four go-to questions that you can steal and adapt. We all know that we're expected to ask questions. Most job interviews end with the interviewer saying, "So what questions do you have for me?" That doesn't mean the interview is over, and the rest of it is just casual chitchat. No. You are still being evaluated based on the questions that you ask. So let's teach you how to make sure you're asking good ones starting with the basics. You should have at least three questions prepared in advance for every interview.



And you should also be listening closely during the interview to identify additional questions, questions that show interest in things that your interviewer mentions during the interview. Let's be clear, this is not the time to ask questions about benefits or compensation, especially in a competitive job market, you have to make them love you before you can start grilling them for the information that you want. Sure, gather the information that's provided, but focus first and foremost on showing that you are someone who would excel in this role. There will be time to talk salary after you've won them over and have more leverage. Before we get to the questions you can steal, I want to talk about a particular question that you should never ask. I want to call this out specifically because I know there's a lot of advice floating around out there telling people to ask this question at the end of an interview. Don't do it. That question, "Is there anything about my background that you have concerns about?" And there are related ones like this. "Is there any reason based on what you know about me now why you wouldn't offer me the job?" The reason that some supposed experts recommend that you ask this type of question is based on real psycholog but it's based on sales psychology. If any of you have a background in sales, you know that when you're meeting with a prospect when you're trying to close a deal, you want to counter their objections. Why not ask a question like this to draw out some more information about the interviewer's concerns or potential objections? In a job interview, it doesn't work. Mainly, because it makes interviewers very uncomfortable, and there are a couple of reasons for that. First of all, most interviewers need some time to process after an interview.



They're going to review their notes, compare you to the other candidates. Most likely, they'll have some sort of scoring criteria that they're going to fill out. Then they're probably going to sit down with other people on the team, compare notes, and decide. So in that moment, when you haven't even finished the interview yet, it's too soon. Even if they have opinions, they're still processing everything that you've told them. Most people also hate to give bad news. It's an awkward conversation to critique someone you don't know. Interviewers don't want to deal with the effort or the awkwardness even if they have clear opinions.



Also, in most companies, HR has trained managers and told them not to give feedback to candidates in interviews. There are too many potential risk factors in terms of giving feedback at that stage. Finally, it's important to know there have been many studies that have concluded that the last part of an experience has a huge impact on how the overall experience is remembered. Yes, first impressions are critical, but last impressions are also very important. If an interview ends on a positive note, if it ends strong, the overall memory of the experience is strong for the interviewer, so you want to end on a positive note. You don't want to end by asking the interviewer to think about all your shortcomings. Okay. Now that you've crossed that question off your list, let's get to those four smart questions that I promised you. You can borrow, or adapt these, or use them for inspiration to come up with your own questions. I'm just going to walk through them fairly quickly, give you the question, and then talk a little bit about why it works well. Number one, what qualities do you think are most important for someone to excel in this position? I feel like this question can work for pretty much any interview. It could apply to any position, and you can ask it of any interviewer, even of multiple interviewers for the same position. You're asking for the interviewer's opinion so each person could have a different answer. This question is also a way of getting the interviewer to prioritize requirements from their personal perspective. You're connecting with that person, showing your respect for their point of view, and you may just get some information that wasn't in the job description.



If they bring up a strength that you haven't mentioned, you have the opportunity to jump in and address it. Finally, the act of asking this question shows that you're someone who's driven to excel. You want to know what it takes to succeed in this position, not just to perform, but to excel. You're driven, and that's going to come through with the way you ask the question. Number two, what are the most important priorities for the company, or the department, or the team right now? This question shows that you're excited and interested to know more about the company's immediate needs. What are the big opportunities right now? What are the things I'm going to dive into and get my hands on if I'm given this role? The question shows both enthusiasm and critical thinking skills. It also shows genuine interest in how you could make a contribution. You can ask is at the company level or you can get more specific and ask about the division or the team. This can work particularly well at a larger organization. This question often leads to a nice discussion about how you could contribute, get the interviewer chatting with you like a peer, building rapport.



It could lead to a great conversation that will set you apart from other candidates. Question three, what do you personally like most about working for this company? This question shows your interest and what it's like to be part of the team. And this shows your interest in the interviewer, specifically, and what their point of view is. Asking for personal insights shows your respect and can help you build rapport, and it just might give you some nice inside information about the company, the culture, and lots of other good stuff.


You can also adapt this question to be more specific. Maybe something like, "What's your favorite part of the job?" or, "What's the most interesting project you're working on now?" This shows your interest in the day-to-day work as well, and it can lead to a more interesting conversation, which again, can build rapport. Question four, can you tell me more about a typical day on the job? Okay. So this one is a bit more general, but if the interviewer hasn't shared a lot of details about the job, this question can give you some useful information about additional skill sets to mention. You want to know as much as possible about exactly what they're looking for. This will help you better understand your fit and better communicate it to the interviewer. This question also shows your interest in the work and how you can make an impact. Now sometimes, by the end of the interview, they have already talked a lot about this. So if that's the case, move on to other questions or think of a follow-up related to what you already know about the job. Okay. That's it.


All you need to know to prepare questions to ask in your next job interview and a few solid questions to include in your list. Now, you can feel confident that your questions will help impress your interviewer and end your job interview experience on a high note.
